Gregoire: Dnyaneshwar was the foundation.
Of course, what was meant at that
time was to establish dharma above all,
was not to give realisation, but establish dharma
by expressing human values
in the perspective of the spiritual absolute,
so that should every human behaviour
should be kept in check by the spiritual finality.
Now, Saint Dnyaneshwar is an
absolutely extraordinary person.
He died at the age of about 21 years old,
and after having left behind him a
book which is called JnÄneshvari,
who is basically a commentary
of the Bhagavad Gita in Sanskrit.
He - I want to go quickly
through the family story,
but again, they were really
treated as outcasts because
his father had left his wife to take to Sanyaza,
and his guru sent him back to married life.
So after that, the Brahmins didn't want at all
to have anything to do with a Brahmin
who had gone back to family life.
So they were treated like
dirt by all the Brahmins,
but they were, I don't know,
three brothers and two sisters,
and they were all very highly realised souls, and actually
his brother got his initiation and gave it to him.
Now, there are many miracles
in the life of Dnyaneshwar,
which are famous. For instance,
while he was arguing with a couple of learned
pendants saying that God is everywhere and in everything,
then they made a fool out of him, and they said, well, if God is everything and if the Vedas are everything, can you make this cow say the Vedas?
And he went to the cow, and buffalo, I
don't know, started reciting the Vedas.
And so, you know, I mean, he was rather good, huh.
We can't do that yet.
Try on any buffalo, it won't work.
So another example, which is very sweet,
there was one of these big ascetic, which came down to
their place because they started being famous, of course.
And he came on the back
of a tiger trying to show off.
And Dnyaneshwar was sitting on a rock, like
on a little wall with his brothers and sisters,
and he said, oh, here's the great saint. I
don't know what he who is coming to visit us.
Let's just pay our homage to the saint.
And then the rock flew and they
all flew on the rock to meet the saint.
And then when the saint on his poor tiger looked at
this, he was completely, you know, ruled over, I mean.
He realised it was rather smarter to
move on a on a wall than on a tiger.
Then he prostrated himself before Dnyaneshwar.
And Shri Mataji, when she commented on this,
she said, this is Shri Hanumana who
is playing this trick. He carried the wall
because Shri Hanumana
is the master of the siddhis.
That is, he's the master of
all the magic magical powers,
as you know, as he brought back the
whole mountain to cure Lakshmana.
Now, just after this few
biographic notes, he died here.
This is the place of the office, what we call
Maha-samadhi, when he departed his body,
or Chaitanya Samadhi, because he left in meditation.
He was deep into Nirikalpa Samadhi.
And in that consciousness, he left his body.
So it's not when we, like when we die, we are kind
of thrown out of our body by Yama, the God of death,
but these people, they just leave
the human kosha, the envelope.
Now, just one thing you need
to know about his message.
It's, I mean, of course, his
treatise of the, of the Gita
has helped extremely to understand what Lord Krishna
wanted, the message Lord Krishna wanted to pass.
There is something very
beautiful, which I mentioned at the...
Sahasrara Puja in Vienna.
And this is the following thing.
As you know, Bhagavad Gita explained,
how Shri Krishna showed the Virata to Arjuna.
And then when Arjuna sees whatever was
contained in Krishna, he panicked completely.
He said, I mean, sorry, I really know. I mean,
please forgive me for calling you my friend.
Forgive me for joking with you, for eating
with you, for, I didn't know. Please forgive me.
He got seized by this all.
And yet, in his commentary of the Bhagavad Gita,
Saint Dnyaneshwar says that in a
way, the daily form of Shri Krishna
was greater than his Virata form,
which contains the whole universe,
because only thanks to this daily form of his
could he have this relationship
of friendship with his devotees.
And the beauty of all this is
fully realised when you know
that Shri Jnaneshvara was nobody else,
but an ancient incarnation of Shri Vishnu.
An ancient incarnation is,
you know, if this is an incarnation,
okay, this is an incarnation,
then an ancient incarnation is this.
I mean, it's the same stuff,
but not the whole thing.
But Shri Jnaneshvara was an incarnation,
an ancient incarnation of Shri Vishnu himself.
So it was the same as Lord Krishna.
So not only Lord Krishna gave the Gita, but he came
back as a Jnaneshvara to give the commentary of it,
which is really sweet.
He didn't trust us.
Rightly so, I suppose. But this is just a comment in
the Jnaneshvara, which I feel personally is beautiful,
because it's absolutely actual for us
Sahaja yogis, that Shri Mataji is here.
She is Viratangana. She contains the whole deities,
the whole lokas, the whole universe, the whole Rudras.
And yet she comes as this
extremely motherly form
with which some of us feel that
they can jest and joke sometimes.
And you saw it at the puja in Nasik.
I mean, she wasn't just chatting with
Warren, putting the plan for our moving.
And this is that human form
which allowed us to be so close,
which was praised by Jnaneshvara.
So I don't know whether I can render the
whole sweetness of the story of this long.
It's a long love stories
between God and His devotees.
And the Jnaneshvara explained it.
So now Jnaneshvara means Jnana is knowledge.
Ishvara is the Lord.
So His very name means
He is the Lord of knowledge.
He's the absolute Lord of knowledge.
And you know Jnana, yoga is on the centre,
Kriya yoga is on the right
and Bhakti yoga is on the left.
So this is really the yoga of the
Sushumna, the yoga of knowledge.
And He's the master of it. So while meditating
or while praying for His blessings here,
we can address Him as the master of knowledge. And that
He should give us the true knowledge of the unconscious.
That is not an accumulated knowledge
which is just a spontaneous intuition
brought in us by Shri Hanumana
himself of what is the right thing to do,
what is the right thing to know at the right time.
And I'm very happy that you all
have the opportunity to visit this place
because like the ashram of Tukarama, it is one
of the milestones of spirituality in Maharashtra.
For the reasons I just explained to you.
So now what I suggest that we do what we did
the last time and this is [UNCLEAR aproduction].
[UNCLEAR Aproduction] means that
I don't know exactly where the main entry of the temple, I think it's on the other side.
But we start from here and the production means that we walk one after the other in silence
three times around the temple
and then we'll gather in the temple
and we'll visit the place
where it took Maha-Samadhi.
So you know to walk around is just a kind of
you can say it's another
form of expressing an artist.
It's a form of expressing
respect. All right? All clear?
So we just walk one behind the
other, we just walk around the temple
and everybody counted from this tree, walked three
times around it. All right?
Jay Shri Mataji And we do this in silence.
Gavin: Where the imagine of Shri
Ganesha has appeared out of the earth.
As a Swayambhu for by itself.
And this village is called [UNCLEAR Taywa]
And these swayambu rocks
have the pure coefficient
of the deity of Sri Ganesha.
And they have great protective powers,
because as you know, he is the
one who overcomes all the obstacles.
So these eight swayambus give the protection to the spiritual quality of Maharashtra.
And make it a place of pilgrimage.
So we are going to go into the temple in silence.
And we take a few of the names of Shri Ganesha
and ask for that innocence
in its pure form to come as
a swayambu within each of us.
As you know, one of the
commandments given to Moses
was not to make any graven image of God,
nor to worship anything that
had been made by human hands.
This image has been made by
the creator herself, the Mother Earth.
And because of that,
it gives the real vibrations of pure innocence.
And that is what we have
come to worship here today
as another manifestation of Adi
Shakti's great love for her children.
Jai Shri Mataji.
Yogis: Jai Shri Mataji.